Eudora_fix_mbx release notes
----------------------------

*** Version 1.5, 19 May 2022

Changes to the program
 - Make <fixattachment> handle the filename*n="xxx" continuation style from RFC 2184
     when fixing attachment filenames. That's too hard for a patch to Eudora.exe to do.
 - Don't have <fixattachment> rename files whose suggested name was on one line, since
     Eudora handles that case. That avoids renaming files that Eudora added digits to.
 - Add a "skipdeleted" option that pre-reads the table of contents file and uses that to
     skip fixing deleted message that are still in the mailbox because it hasn't been compacted.
 - Add <whitespace> as a search term to mean one or more blank or tab characters.
 - Display I/O errors with a text description instead of a numeric code.
 
Changes to the suggested translations.txt file:
 - Use <whitespace> in the <fixattachment> rule so that it matches more cases we've seen.
   (That rule is still a comment by default; you should explicitly opt-in for something that renames files.)
 - Add "option skipdeleted" as the default to avoid processing deleted messages.
 
*** Version 1.4, 13 May 2022

Changes to the program
 - Add * as a search character prefix to mean "zero or more occurrences" of the next character.
 - Allow \r \n \t and \\ escape sequences as search or replacement items, or inside the strings.
 - Add <nochange> as a replacement option; useful for setting match flags without making a change.
 - Show <b> instead of <blank> in the report, to save on screen space.
 - Add <fixattachment> as a replacement option to attempt to repair attachment filenames that 
   Eudora has truncated. We try to restore the original name that was split by Outlook onto 
   multiple lines, and rename the file in the attachment directory. But this may already be 
   obsolete because there is now a patched version of Eudora.exe that fixes it; see the
   patches\3_POP_filename_patch subdirectory of the repository.
   
Changes to the suggested translations.txt file:
 - Add a rule that left-justifies images sent by USPS Informed Delivery.
 - Add a rule that invokes <fixattachment> for filenames that may have been broken. 
   but leave it commented out by default.
 - Add a translation from a UTF-8 Greek lowercase Mu (micro) to ANSI.
 - Add a translation that deletes ALL the pesky remaining circumflex-A characters, 
   but leave it commented out by default.
 
*** Version 1.3, 19 March 2022

Changes to the program:
 - Add the -l command line option to specify the name (and maybe pathname) for the log file.

Changes to the fix_mbx.bat batch file
 - allow the second argument to specify the name of the translation file
 - allow the third argument to specify the name of the log file

*** Version 1.2, 10 February 2022

Changes to the program:
 - Add the -t command line option to specify the name (and maybe pathname) for the translations file.
 - Add the "checksync" option to verify that TOC entries point to messages in the MBX.
 - Increase the maximum search and replacement size from 50 to 100 bytes.
 - Fix bug: a search would sometimes match beyond the end of the valid data at the end of the file,
     allowing the match to repeat next time. (Thanks to Art Maravelis for finding an example.)
 - Complain about "duplicate search string" only if testflags and options also match.
 - Allow <setmatch> after <blanks> or <nothing> in the replacement string.
 - Give an error more reliably when translations are missing the search or replacement string.
 
Changes to the suggested translations.txt file:
 - Do the Outlook 0-margin paragraph fix for extra blank lines in replied-to messages
   when the paragraph class is MsoPlainText too, not just for MsoNormal.
 
*** Version 1.1, 26 October 2021

Changes to the program:
 - Show the date of the first mailbox message changed.
 - In the translation summary show <blank> for search string blanks, which were otherwise invisible.
 
Changes to the suggested translations.txt file:
 - The Unicode "zero-width joiner", hex E2 80 8D, will now be removed from messages.
 - The circumflex-A that might be the result of a Eudora bug is now removed in more cases.
 - Add <ignorecase> to catch more instances of the Outlook issue that causes extra reply lines.
 - There are more suggestions at the end for how to deal with Emojis and other graphics.
   The translations are commented out and left for you to enable if you like their behavior.


*** Version 1.0, 16 October 2021

 - For those of us who run it on large mailboxes where only the new messages at the end need fixing, 
I followed Garth Hjelte's suggestion to add an option that speeds up processing for that case. But 
rather than specify the percentage of the mailbox to look at, which would have meant that small 
mailboxes wouldn't have been fully processed, you instead specify how many bytes at the end of the 
mailbox you want the program to examine. I use the following option, which ensures that mailboxes 
smaller than 10 MB are always completely processed: 
   options onlydo 10 MB 
If the mailbox is larger than 10 MB, it looks 10 MB back from the end and starts with the first 
message it finds after that. 

- The program now returns ERRORLEVEL 1 if there were no errors but no changes needed to be made to 
the MBX or TOC files. That lets the calling batch file know what happened, so... 

- The suggested batch file fix_mbx.bat now uses that to discard the new backup if no changes were 
made. That means that all five retained backups represent actual changes, and there are no identical 
copies kept. 

- Some Outlook-generated emails weren't correctly displayed after being fixed because in their HTML 
they specified "charset=us-ascii". The suggested translations.txt file now changes that to 
"charset=ANSI" to make them work right with both Microsoft's viewer and Eudora's internal viewer. 

- The UTF-8 code E29885, "black star", was added to translations.txt. (Thanks to Bob Zucker, who 
pointed out that Google Maps uses it for ratings.) 


*** Version 0.9, 12 October 2021
 - more information is reported when the program is done
 - <nothing> is now a replacement option, and is equivalent to "" or ''


*** Version 0.8, 3 October 2021
  - It now appends a summary of what it did to Eudora_fix_mbx.log.
  - It doesn't pause after errors; the batch file calling it can do that.
  - I think it now will run on Windows XP, as well as all subsequent versions.
  - For other minor changes, see the change log in the source code.
  - The installation instructions have been reworked.
  - The suggested batch file to run it, fix_mbx.bat, now keeps 5 recent 
    backup copies of each mailbox processed. It lists backups in the log file, 
    and trims old entries from the log file if it grows bigger than 1 MB.
    
    
*** Version 0.7, 28 September 2021

- The big change is that I now allow Eudora to be running when you fix non-system mailboxes. I was 
able do that by changing to a newer Microsoft-specific file system interface (fileapi.h) that allows 
locking, so I lock the files to prevent Eudora from accessing them at the same time. That said, it 
is a good idea to NOT have the mailbox you are fixing be open in Eudora at that time. 

(There is also a hard-to-type option that lets you fix the system mailboxes (In, Out, Trash, and 
Junk) while Eudora is running. But since Eudora keeps some or all of those in memory, unless you are 
very, very careful about what changes Eudora might make, that is an excellent way to corrupt your 
mailbox.) 

Other smaller changes:
 - search restriction clauses can appear in any order
 - progress dots for big TOC files now works
 - the Outlook double-space-reply problem is fixed in more cases
 
 
*** Version 0.6, 23 September 2021
 - Add match flags: <ifmatch n>, <setmatch n>, <clearmatch n>
 - Do subsitutions in the subject and address fields of TOC file.
 - Add options: skipheaders, skipbody, skiptoc
 - Add progress dots for big mailboxes; show total time taken.
  
*** Version 0.5, 19 September 2021
 - Add search modifiers: <headers> <body> <html xxx> <ignorecase>
 - Add <blanks> as a replacement option
 
*** Version 0.4, 17 September 2021
 - Fix bug when printing extended ascii characters in the report.
 - Increase the translations.txt max linesize from 80 to 200.
 - Increase the max translations from 250 to 500.
 - In the status report, only show translations actually used.
 - Don't display the translation.txt file lines as they are read.
 - Check for duplicate search strings.
 
*** Version 0.3, 16 September 2021
 - Show a map of places changed. Minor cosmetic fixes.
 - Fix serious bug in ".mbx" extension removal code.
 
*** Version 0.2, 14 September 2021
 - Elaborate to allow NOT searches, string search specifiers, and "same as source" 
   replacements. The syntax of the translation.txt file has changed.
  
*** Version 0.1, 12 September 2021
 - First version.
 